# Using Machine Learning Algorithms to Estimate Software Defects

## Abstract
<p style="text-align:justify" >
Software Engineering is a comprehensive domain since it requires a tight communication between system stake holders and delivering the system to be developed within a determinate time and a limited budget. Delivering the customer requirements include procuring high performance by minimizing the system. Thanks to effective prediction of system defects on the front line of the project life cycle, the project’s resources and the effort or the software developers can be allocated more efficiently for system development and quality assurance activities. The main aim of this paper is to evaluate the capability of machine learning algorithms in software defect prediction and find the best category while comparing five machine learning algorithms within the context of five NASA datasets obtained from public PROMISE repository and five more datasets from other sources.
</p>

## Introduction
<p style="text-align:justify">
Developing a software system is an arduous process which contains planning, analysis, design, implementation, testing, integration and maintenance. A software engineer is expected to develop a software system on time and within limited the budget which are determined during the planning phase. During the development process, there can be some defects such as improper design, poor functional logic, improper data handling, wrong coding, etc. and these defects may cause errors which lead to rework, increases in development and maintenance costs decrease in customer satisfaction. A defect management approach should be applied in order to improve software quality by tracking of these defects. In this approach, defects are categorized depending on the severity and corrective and preventive actions are taken as per the severity deﬁned. Studies have shown that ’defect prevention’ strategies on behalf of ’defect detection’ strategies are used in current methods. Using defect prevention strategies to reduce defects generating during the software development the process is a costly job. It requires more effort and leads to increases in project costs. Accordingly, detecting defects in the software on the front line of the project life cycle is crucial. The implementation of machine learning algorithms which is the binary prediction model enables identify defect- prone modules in the software system before a failure occurs during development process. In this research, our aim is to evaluate the software defect prediction performance of seven machine learning algorithms by utilizing quality metrics; accuracy, precision, recall, F-measure associated with defects as an independent variable and ﬁnd the best category while comparing software defect prediction performance of these machine learning algorithms within the context of four NASA datasets obtained from public PROMISE repository. The selected machine learning algorithms for comparison are used for supervised learning to solve classiﬁcation problems. They are three tree-structured classiﬁer techniques: (i) Bagging, (ii) Random Forests (RF) and (iii) Decision Tree; One Neural networks techniques: (i) Multilayer Perceptron (MLP); and one discriminative classiﬁer Support Vector Machine (SVM). The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 brieﬂy describes the related work, while Section 3 describes the experimental methodology in detail. Section 4 contains the conclusion of the experimental study and underlined some possible future research directions.
</p>

